---
layout: post
title: How to setup a Atom XML feed on Jekyll
summary: Simple setup for XML feeds on jekyll.
tag: jekyll
---

<h2>Problem</h2>
How do I get a XML feed of my posts on a jekyll blog?

<h2>Solution</h2>
The simple answer is to use the same approach used to create a post. 

If you come from the drupal or wordpress world, you might make the problem a little more complex then is needs to be. A good thing to keep in mind with jekyll and github, is that github is crazy. They would hosting a blog, website, or project site for free, it was going to require the same level of support that comes with a traditional db driven blog.

Jykell is a viable solution because it reads your git repo and creates local HTML files. HTML files use the web server as a standard file server, so fast and safe. There are no calls to an application layer, like php, asp etc. Web servers are at their simplest, very fast file servers. 

So to close the loop, create an atom.xml file. And include the following code. When the repo is parsed by jekyll, the front matter alerts the parse to process the atom.xml. This parse results in a local XML file. Each time to push to the repo the process runs again, and the XML feed file gets updated. 

<h2>Code</h2>

<pre>
---
layout: nil
---
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
 
 <title>&#123;&#123; site.site-title }}</title>
 <link href="http://&#123;&#123; site.github-username &#125;&#125;.github.com/atom.xml" rel="self"/>
 <link href="http://&#123;&#123; site.github-username &#125;&#125;.github.com/"/>
 <updated>&#123;&#123; site.time | date_to_xmlschema &#125;&#125;</updated>
 <id>http://&#123;&#123; site.github-username &#125;&#125;.github.com/</id>
 <author>
   <name>&#123;&#123; site.site-title &#125;&#125;</name>
   <email>&#123;&#123; site.bio-email-address &#125;&#125;</email>
 </author>
 
 &#123;% for post in site.posts %&#125;
   <entry>
     <title>&#123;&#123; post.title &#125;&#125;</title>
     <link href="http://&#123;&#123; site.github-username &#125;&#125;.github.com&#123;&#123; post.url &#125;&#125;"/>
     <updated>&#123;&#123; post.date | date_to_xmlschema &#125;&#125;</updated>
     <id>http://&#123;&#123; site.github-username &#125;&#125;.github.com&#123;&#123; post.id &#125;&#125;</id>
     <content type="html">&#123;&#123; post.content | xml_escape &#125;&#125;</content>
   </entry>
 &#123;% endfor %&#125;
 
</feed>
</pre>

<h2>Attributes</h2>
The code for this solution was included in the jqr.github.com repo. I have added some customizations to the _config.yml to make the atom.xml file easier to reuse, meaning no hardcoded names, emails or URLs paths.