---
layout: post
title: Jenkins Trigger + Git Work-Around
summary: Found an easy work around for getting the Jenkins SCM Polling to work. 
tag: jenkins
---

<h2>Problem</h2>
The Jenkins SCM Polling feature is not working. No matter what we have tried it runs the same job every minute, even after cloning a git repository and passing all tests. In Hudson, this feature worked like a charm. After the upgrade, no love, the job keeps on building. We have a feeling Jenkins is not storing the .git commit info correctly. Over time, I am certain we will tease out the issue.

<h2>Solution: Git Hooks</h2>
Git Hooks are a nice way to get the same feature we had in Hudson. When a commit is made to a git branch, a job is trigger and runs. Here is how we made it work. First we are using "Gitosis":https://github.com/res0nat0r/gitosis to provides a central git repo. This solution will work on github using their implementation of repo hooks.

# Login into your "Jenkins":http://jenkins-ci.org/ Server.
# Edit a job.
# Disable the 'Poll SCM' feature in the 'Build Triggers' section of the jobs configuration options.
# Enable the  'Trigger builds Remotely'. Set a Authentication Token.
# Copy the URL from below the description below. (Notice the /buildWithParameters options)
# Test the URL in a different browser. Your job should trigger and run.
# Login into the git server as the <b>gitosis</b> user.
# Edit the post-receive file in the repo you want to monitor. ( example: nano /srv/gitosis/repositories/hooks/post-receive)
# chmod 777 post-recieve
# Add the following:

{% highlight bash linenos %}
curl -s http://Jenkins.MyServer.com/job/myJob/buildWithParameters?token=1
echo "Triggering Jenkins 'myJob' Job on Server..."
echo ""
{% endhighlight %}

<b>Tips:</b> 
# The <i>-s</i> makes the curl call silent. 
# You will need to make sure curl is install on your server.
# The 'echo' commands in the post-recieve call will show on the git push message for any remote users. This is optional, but nice to have, since it lets your developers know that jenkins is getting its alter.
# Check your DNS. The git account must be able to access the Jenkins Job URL. Use the following command to run the post-receive hook at the cli. You should see a echo messages, and the jenkins job will trigger. No trigger? Try testing the external URL from a browser first.

{% highlight js %}
bash /srv/gitosis/repositories/hooks/post-receive
{% endhighlight %}

<h2>Options</h2>
You can use <b>wget</b> if that is better for the curl call. Using a silent option keeps the remote users git push command a little cleaner.

<h2>Feedback</h2>
Are there other options for doing the same thing?