---
layout: post
title: Jekyll Tips and Tricks
summary: Brain dump of issues and solutions with textile/jekyll.
tag: jekyll
---

* An item in a bulleted (unordered) list
* Another item in a bulleted list
** Second Level
** Second Level Items

"(classname)link text(title tooltip)":http://cnn.com

Reference: <a href="https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/_pages">Pages</a>
<h3>Notes</h3>
All posts need to go into a _posts folder. The file need to have naming convertion of YYYY-MM-DD-title-of-post.textile. This interesting by poorly doced app appears to tear apart the filename to create a date and title clean URL. 

<h3>Configuration: _configure.yml</h3>
<a href="https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/configuration">Configuration</a>
At first glass, the _config.yml file does not seem to be required. I started by adding individual pages from the git repo created by <a href="http://jqr.github.com/">Elijah Miller</a>. 

<h3>YAML Front Matter</h3>
To make a file show up in the github processor, include the following, as noted in the following docs. 

<pre>
---
layout: post
title: Title of the Post
---
</pre>

The layout value tells jekyll to look for a _layouts/post.html.
The title tells jekyll to use the following string as the page title.

With a little testing I found that anything can be placed into this pattern, and then be available in the layout files namespace when the layout is processed. To give the blog the ability to store and feed specific delicious tags to the post.html page, I added the tag (as a test) to the Front Matter content. On the post.html page, I was able to print and use the value in the jQuery that calls the feed for a json list of all posts matching the tag values.

{% highlight js %}
---
layout: post
title: Title of the Post
tag: drupal+mamp
---
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight js %}
sudo su -
<title>{{ page.title }}</title>
{% endhighlight %}
or

{% highlight js %}
<script type="text/javascript">
$(function(){
  $('#delicious-posts').delicious('username',{tag:'{{ page.tag }}',popopen:true});
  });
</script>
{% endhighlight %}

"View the sample code(my Sample Code)":http://github.github.com/github-flavored-markdown/sample_content.html

This is a test of the inline link f3ature.[This link](http://example.net/) has no title attribute. asdfadsf

To research: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/yaml-front-matter